Update unit tests information with examples (#36202)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/testing.md

{@a attribute-directive}

## Unit Testing Angular App As Pure JS Application

> Unit testing is the low level testing. It's goal is to tests units. Unit means any simple part of application.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

> It can be module as unit / component as unit or method as unit.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

> In JavaScript unit-testing mostly means testing of methods. In this context the goal of this testing is to cover <b>only tested methods functionality</b>.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

> To simplify the tests and make them more stable and predictable they should be independent.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

> Independence in JavaScript mostly compatible to Functional Programming e.g pure functions.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

> Each pure function should return the same result with the same passed arguments and does not have any side effects (e.g. closures)

Author: Updated to proposed text.

```javascript
 const pureFunction = (arg) => arg;

>  const notPureFunction = () => arg;

Author: True. Updated to ` const notPureFunction = () => closuredVariable;`

```

> In the test we need to follow the same principe to simplify it.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

> 1. each tested method should be wrapped to the individual scope with initialization on the root level to perform it before each tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Each tested method should be wrapped to the individual scope with initialization on the root level to perform it before each test.
```
Clarification needed. Is this saying:
 ...with initialization performed before each test at the root level.   ?

Author: The description is re-written. I also update the example.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15786916/116901900-29436100-ac43-11eb-88b4-38c806f94de9.png)

```javascript
 describe('#testedMethodScope', () => {
  beforeEach(() => {/*initialization*/}); 
 });
```

> 2. Each case should be performed with not dirty state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Each case should be performed with not dirty state.
```
Is there another name for "not dirty state" ?

Author: I don't know usually it is used as `isDirty = false` by default. I guess it is used in common state as not dirty without special word.
The missed dot is added.

```javascript
// invalid 
 let value = true;
 it('value should be truthy', () => {
  value = false;
  expect(value).toBeFalse();
 });

 it('value should be truthy', () => {
  expect(value).toBeTruthy();
 });
```
 
 ```javascript
 // valid 
 let value;

 beforeEach(() => {
   value = true
 });

 it('value should be truthy', () => {
   value = false;
   expect(value).toBeFalse();
 });
 
 it('value should be truthy', () => {
   expect(value).toBeTruthy();
 });
 ```

> 3. Each test should not test another methods in the tested method

Author: Updated to proposed text.

```typescript
 const testedMethod = (params: any, dependencyWithHandler: any) => dependencyWithHandler.handler(params);
 
 // invalid
 expect(testedMethod(realParams, realDependencyWithOwnImplementation)).toEqual(originalResult);

 // valid
 let comfortableMockedParams: any;
 let comfortablePredictableTestResult: any = '';
 let mockedDataWithDefinedMethod: any = {
  handler: () => comfortablePredictableTestResult
 };
 expect(testedMethod(comfortableMockedParams, mockedDataWithDefinedMethod)).toBe(comfortablePredictableTestResult);
```

> 4. Each dependency and data used in the tested method should be mocked or replaced to the spy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Each dependency and data used in the tested method should be mocked or replaced to the spy.
```
Unclear. Please reword.

Author: The missed dot is added.  
In each method we have dependencies and data used inside them so the y must be replaced to mocked values for static data and spies for methods/functions.

```typescript
 const testedMethod = (params: any, dependencyWithHandler: any) => dependencyWithHandler.handler(params);
 
 // all the values should be initialized in the main scope of the tested callback (describe(() => { /* here */})) 
 let dependency: any;
 let handler: any;
 
 // definition of "static" or constant can be performed once
 const expectedResult = 'expectedResult';
 
 // static arguments can be defined once too 
 const params = 'params';
 

>  // definition of "dynamic" values should be performed before each tests to clean up test's state 

Author: Updated to proposed text.

 beforeEach(() => {
   handler = jasmine.createSpy('handler').and.returnvalue(expectedResult);
   dependency = { handler };
 });

 it('should works', () => {
   expect(testedMethod(params, dependency)).toBe(expectedResult);
 });
 
 // to validate clean up of state
 it('value should be truthy', () => {
   expect(handler).not.toHaveBeenCalled();
 });
 ```

> 5. Each type should be simplified as possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Each type should be simplified as possible.
```
Ambiguous; please clarify. Is this saying: 
Each type should be as simple as possible
Each type should be made as simple as possible
Each type should be simplified as much as possible

Author: updated to `Each type should be simplified as much as possible.` For me all these are close for meaning. Anyway I meant in the test we need only types used inside the tested methods, so all passed but not used in them should be omitted.
```
type A = {stringProperty: string; numberProperty: number}
const getStrignProperty= (a: A) => a.stringProperty;

//in the test
expect(getStrignProperty({stringProperty: 'stringProperty'})).toBe('stringProperty'); // numberProperty is not defined as not used in the tested method
``

```typescript
 interface ComplicatedDataType {
    nestedComplicatedDataTypes: AnotherComplicatedType[];
    primitiveField: boolean;
 }

 const productionMethod1 = (params: ComplicatedDataType, dependency: any) => dependency.handler(params);
 const productionMethod2 = ({ nestedComplicatedDataTypes }: ComplicatedDataType, {handler}: any) => handler(nestedComplicatedDataTypes);
 

>  // use any to avoid following complicated data structure to reduce mock/stub data size and simplify tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 // use any to avoid following complicated data structure to reduce mock/stub data size and simplify tests
```
Sentence needs a noun after "Use any (noun) to avoid following.."

Author: `any` is noun in this case. anyway updated to `// use `any` type to avoid following complicated data structure to reduce mock/stub data size and simplify tests`

 let testedMethod1: any = productionMethod1;
 let testedMethod2: any = productionMethod2;

 const params = 'any primitive field which can be unique for test';
 const nestedComplicatedDataTypes = 'nestedComplicatedDataTypes';

 const handler = jasmine.createSpy('handler');

 // pass only used data
 testedMethod1(params, { handler }); 
 expect(handler).toHaveBeenCalledWith(params);
 
 testedMethod2({nestedComplicatedDataTypes}, { handler }); 
 expect(handler).toHaveBeenCalledWith(nestedComplicatedDataTypes);
```

> 6. Tests should avoid any mutations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Tests should avoid any mutations.
```

Author: The dot is added.

```typescript
 // invalid
 const spy = jasmine.createSpy('spy'); 

 it('should call spy', () => {
  spy();
  expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalled();
 });

 it('should not call spy', () => {
  expect(spy).not.toHaveBeenCalled(); // failed
 })
```

```typescript
 // valid
 let spy: any;

 beforeEach(() => {
  spy = jasmine.createSpy('spy');
 });

 it('should call spy', () => {
  spy();
  expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalled();
 });

 it('should not call spy', () => {
  expect(spy).not.toHaveBeenCalled(); // success
 })
```

> 7. Common tips

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Common tips:
```

Author: colon is added

>  - do not forget any angular's component (e.g. services/directives etc.) are simple classes (function constructor) with specific annotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Do not forget that any Angular components (such as services, directives, etc.) are simple classes (function constructors) with specific annotations.
```
For clarity.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

```typescript
 import { Component, Injectable } from '@angular/core';
 
 class Service {
   public serviceMethod() {}
 }

 class JavaScriptComponent {
  constructor(private service: any) {}

  public method() {} 
 } 
 
 const service = new Service();
 const component = new JavaScriptComponent(service);
 
 const angularService = new Injectable(/*list of annotations*/)(Service);
 const angularComponent = new Component(/*list of annotations*/)(JavaScriptComponent);
 
 expect(component.method).toBe(angularComponent.method);
 expect(service.serviceMethod).toBe(angularService.serviceMethod);
```

>  - name dependencies and their methods as in production code to simplify their search/debug

Author: Updated to proposed text.

```typescript
 // for tested instances
 let component = new CustomNameComponent(); // valid
 let cnc = new CustomNameComponent(); // invalid

 let service = new CustomNameService(); // valid
 let cns = new CustomNameService(); // invalid

 // for their dependencies and spies.
 let httpService: any; // valid
 let httpServiceSpy: any; // invalid
 let httpServiceMock: any; // invalid

 let dependencyMethod: any; // valid
 let dependencyMethodSpy: any; // invalid
```
 

>  - use named only spies and directly assigned dependencies methods for auto-completing and simpler debug 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Use named-only spies and directly assigned dependencies methods for auto-completing and simpler debugging. 
```
For clarity.

Author: Updated to proposed text.

```typescript
 // spies 
 let spy = jasmine.createSpy('spy'); // valid
 let spy = jasmine.createSpy(); // invalid
 let DI = {
   anotherSpy: jasmine.createSpy('anotherSpy')
 }
  // DI.-> auto com-completing
```

>  - do not forget validate arguments to prevent regressions in their changes

Author: Updated to proposed text.

```typescript
 let spy = jasmine.createSpy('spy');
 spy(param);
 expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalled(); // successful #invalid
 
 spy(param);
 expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalledWith(param); // successful #valid

 spy(anotherParam);
 expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalledWith(param); // failed #valid

> ```

Reviewer 2: Having hard-coded snippets (such as these ones here) is something we are trying to avoid. It makes it easy to introduce typos and makes the content easier to break in the future without us noticing.

Ideally, all code examples should come from doc-regions (which are part of a tested mini-app).

Reviewer 3: I agree with @gkalpak. We should not have hard-coded examples in our documentation--even though I know how much easier it is (at least in the short term!) to do so.

In addition, I think this text needs a little more work before we can publish:

* Can we title the section to reflect the problem this content is trying to solve?
* In the opening paragraph, can we provide more clarity about why this content might be relevant to the reader?
* The principles you refer to don't seem to require an ordered list. Should users consider these principles in order?
* Can we add more explanation that clarify these principles? Why are they important?
* What is the difference between common tips and the principles?
* Most importantly, we definitely will need some feedback to ensure that we agree on these principles and common tips.

I'm happy to chat about how to implement some of these changes if you like! I realize this might seem like a lot of feedback, but I don't think it will take long to implement, provided that we get engineering sign-off on the content!
